
Hello User Tutorial: Step 8
===========================

In this final step we are going to wrap up the whole demo and make some optimization to run the application as a HTTP server. If you run the previous tutorial steps as HTTP server, you will notice that one issue is that the database is queried to retreive user information for each HTTP request. To improve performance web applications usually add some cache logic to reduce query frequency to the database.

With Quiver.js, such logic can again be easily be done by using filter. For demo purpose we will implement a naiive in-app cache that cache user entries indefinitely based on user ID.

```javascript
var userCacheFilter = function(config, handler, callback) {
  var caches = { }

  var filteredHandler = function(args, inputStreamable, callback) {
    var userId = args.user_id
    if(!userId) return handler(args, inputStreamable, callback)

    if(caches[userId]) return callback(null, caches[userId])

    handler(args, inputStreamable, function(err, resultStreamable) {
      if(err) return callback(err)

      // Make sure the stream is reusable
      streamConvert.createReusableStreamable(resultStreamable, 
        function(err, cachedStreamable) {
          if(err) return callback(err)

          caches[userId] = cachedStreamable
          callback(null, cachedStreamable)
        })
    })
  }

  callback(null, filteredHandler)
}

var quiverComponents = [
  {
    name: 'demo user cache filter',
    type: 'stream filter',
    filter: userCacheFilter
  },
  {
    name: 'demo get user handler',
    type: 'simple handler',
    inputType: 'void',
    outputType: 'json',
    middlewares: [
      'demo mock database middleware',
      'demo user cache filter'
    ],
    handlerBuilder: getUserHandlerBuilder
  },
  ...
]
```

The user cache filter captures the resultStreamable of its inner handler and make the streamable [reusable](https://github.com/quiverjs/doc/blob/master/core/02-streamable.md). That way the entire stream content is kept in memory and the streamable can be opened multiple times. It then stores the cached streamable in a plain hash table using the user ID as key. In subsequent requests if the same user ID is requested the result will be retrieved from the cache instead of going through the handler again.

The user cache filter can be applied to any handler, and in this case we apply it to the get user handler. With that one line of code, any component that depends on the get user handler, including the user filter, will automatically get the cache performance boost for free.

There are of course issues with the naiive cache above. For example the cache is retained forever and is not cleared when user entry is updated on the database. However in some cases even such simple cache is sufficient as long as the user is aware of the quirks of caching. Otherwise in production such filter would typically query from a memcached cluster or have some distributed cache mechanism. Nevertheless the point here is to show how cache layer can be added easily through a filter.

With all that in place, we can test the demo as HTTP server by using [quiver-server](https://github.com/quiverjs/server). For simplicity, we extract the user ID from the HTTP GET path, which begin with a slash. We modify the user filter to extract that from `args.path`, which contain the HTTP path get forwarded to the handler by `quiver-server`.

```javascript
var getUserFilter = function(config, handler, callback) {
  ...

  var filteredHandler = function(args, inputStreamable, callback) {
    var userId = args.user_id
    if(!userId && args.path) userId = args.path.slice(1)

    ...
  }

  callback(null, filteredHandler)
}
```

With that we are set to run the demo as server:

```bash
$ quiver-server tutorial/09.js --config tutorial/custom-greet.json --main 'demo hello handler'
listening to port 8080...

$ curl http://localhost:8080/john --data "<b>hello world</b>"
bonjour, <b>John Smith</b>!
You have submitted the following text: &lt;b&gt;hello world&lt;/b&gt;
```

## More Advanced

The demo server above lack of authentication and instead identify user based on the GET path. But you get the idea of how flexible is Quiver.js. A full authentication filter can be written which authenticate user from sources like HTTP cookie, but that is out of the scope of this demo.

The server is also lack of routing to enable multiple handlers to work together at different paths. Routing can be done easily by the quiver [router component](https://github.com/quiverjs/doc/blob/master/core/08-component.md#router), but we'll also leave the details to another demo.

## Full Source

The final source of this tutorial can be found as a single file [here](09.js). It is actually the same as the source code in the [main demo directory](../component) organized in multiple source files.

## What's next

Do check out the complete [Quiver.js documentation](https://github.com/quiverjs/doc) or stay tune for [more demo](../..).